#Ransomware: A case study
Ransomware is a type of malware that encrypts the victim's personal data until a ransom is paid.It restricts access to the computer system that it infects and all the data that it stores (often using encryption techniques), and demands a ransom to be paid to the creator(s) of the malware. This is in order for the restriction to be removed. Some forms of ransomware encrypt files on the system's hard disk. Others may simply lock the system and display messages intended to persuade the user to pay.
Difficult-to-trace digital currencies such as paysafecard or Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are commonly used for the ransoms, making tracing and prosecuting the perpetrators difficult. Sometimes the original files can be retrieved without paying the ransom due to implementation mistakes, leaked cryptographic keys or a complete lack of encryption in the ransomware.
The process of ransomware attacks can be roughly described in 4 steps:
-Infiltration: The ransomware is delivered to the victim’s system through malicious links or attachments.
-Execution: Once the malicious file is opened, the ransomware installs itself onto the system.
-Encryption: The ransomware encrypts critical files or locks users out of their systems or even bricks the system.
-Ransom Demand: A message appears which demands payment in exchange for the decryption key. 

Ransomware attacks are typically carried out using a Trojan disguised as a legitimate file that the user is tricked into downloading or opening when it arrives as an email attachment. However, one high-profile example, the WannaCry worm, traveled automatically between computers without user interaction.

#WannaCry ransomware attack
WannaCry ransomware attack was a worm that infected many Windows computers around the world on May 2017. The worm had spread malware that encrypted the user's computer data (i.e. scrambled the user's computer data into meaningless information) and demanded affected users to pay $300 Bitcoin within 3 days or $600 Bitcoin within 7 days before all of the affected computer's data is destroyed. The malware had cost the world millions to billions of dollars to fix their servers and computers.
The attack had begun at 07:44 UTC on 12 May 2017 and was halted a few hours later at 15:03 UTC by the registration of a kill switch discovered by Marcus Hutchins. The kill switch prevented already infected computers from being encrypted or further spreading WannaCry.The attack has been estimated to have affected more than 300,000 computers across 150 countries, with total damages ranging from hundreds of millions to billions of dollars.
The initial infection was likely through an exposed vulnerable SMB port, rather than email phishing as initially assumed and is most commonly the case.Just within a day the code was reported to have infected more than 230,000 computers in over 150 countries.Experts quickly advised affected users against paying the ransom due to no reports of people getting their data back after payment and as high revenues would encourage more of such campaigns.As of 14 June 2017, after the attack had subsided, a total of 327 payments totaling US$130,634.77 which is worth approximately US$3,390,765.29 as of 27 February 2026. After the WannaCry ransomware attack started, companies and universities around the world have researched ways to eliminate spread of the malware. After four days, the malware did not spread any further, and it was now easy to eliminate the malware.